README.md, before:

# Backstage Plugins

A collection of plugins that extend [Backstage](https://backstage.io) to help with developer onboarding, context switching, and automated IDE environments (remote or local).

- [backstage-plugin-coder](./plugins/backstage-plugin-coder/README.md): A plugin for integrating Coder workspaces with Backstage.
- [backstage-plugin-devcontainers-backend](./plugins/backstage-plugin-devcontainers/README.md): A plugin for integrating VS Code Dev Containers extension with Backstage catalog items (no Coder deployment necessary).

Please use [GitHub issues](https://github.com/coder/backstage-plugins/issues) to report any issues or feature requests.

## Contributing

To start the app:

```sh
yarn install
yarn dev
```

To run an individual plugin:

```sh
cd plugins/backstage-plugin-$name
yarn install
yarn start
```

Note that the Coder plugin does not support running like this as it currently
uses a backend proxy that is not available when running independently of the
Backstage app.

## Releasing

To draft a release for a plugin push a tag named `$name/v$version` without the
`backstage-plugin-` prefix. For example:

```sh
git tag -a coder/v0.0.0 -m "coder v0.0.0"
git push origin coder/v0.0.0
```

This will kick off an action that will create a draft release for the plugin.
Once you have reviewed the release you can publish it and another action will
publish the plugin to NPM.

Commit message:

docs: add link to react plugin in main readme

README.md, after:

# Backstage Plugins

A collection of plugins that extend [Backstage](https://backstage.io) to help with developer onboarding, context switching, and automated IDE environments (remote or local).

- [backstage-plugin-coder](./plugins/backstage-plugin-coder/README.md): A plugin for integrating Coder workspaces with Backstage.
- [backstage-plugin-devcontainers-backend](./plugins/backstage-plugin-devcontainers/README.md): A plugin for integrating VS Code Dev Containers extension with Backstage catalog items (no Coder deployment necessary).
- [backstage-plugin-devcontainers-react](./plugins/backstage-plugin-devcontainers-react/README.md): A plugin for allowing you to detect and work with devcontainers repo data added by `backstage-plugin-devcontainers-backend`, namely letting you open a repo in VS Code with a full devcontainers setup (no Coder deployment necessary).

Please use [GitHub issues](https://github.com/coder/backstage-plugins/issues) to report any issues or feature requests.

## Contributing

To start the app:

```sh
yarn install
yarn dev
```

To run an individual plugin:

```sh
cd plugins/backstage-plugin-$name
yarn install
yarn start
```

Note that the Coder plugin does not support running like this as it currently
uses a backend proxy that is not available when running independently of the
Backstage app.

## Releasing

To draft a release for a plugin push a tag named `$name/v$version` without the
`backstage-plugin-` prefix. For example:

```sh
git tag -a coder/v0.0.0 -m "coder v0.0.0"
git push origin coder/v0.0.0
```

This will kick off an action that will create a draft release for the plugin.
Once you have reviewed the release you can publish it and another action will
publish the plugin to NPM.
